# How to Enable Password Authentication in AWS EC2 Instances

This guide will walk you through the steps to enable password authentication for SSH access on your AWS EC2 instances.

## Prerequisites

- An AWS account with access to EC2 instances.
- Basic understanding of AWS EC2 and SSH.

## Steps

1. **Launch your EC2 Instance**
   - Launch an EC2 instance as usual from the AWS Management Console.

2. **Connect to your Instance**
   - Use SSH to connect to your instance:

     ```bash
     ssh -i <path_to_your_key_file> ec2-user@<public_dns_name>
     ```

3. **Enable Password Authentication**
   - Edit the SSH configuration file:

     ```bash
     sudo nano /etc/ssh/sshd_config
     ```

   - Find the line `PasswordAuthentication no` and change it to `PasswordAuthentication yes`.
   - Save and exit the file (`Ctrl + X`, then `Y`, then `Enter`).

4. **Restart SSH Service**
   - Restart the SSH service for changes to take effect:

     ```bash
     sudo service sshd restart
     ```

5. **Set a Password**
   - Set a password for the `ec2-user`:

     ```bash
     sudo passwd ec2-user
     ```

   - Enter and confirm the new password when prompted.

6. **Access EC2 Instance with Password**
   - Now you can SSH into your instance using password authentication:

     ```bash
     ssh ec2-user@<public_dns_name>
     ```

   - Enter the password you set earlier when prompted.

7. **Important Security Note**
   - Password authentication introduces security risks. Ensure strong passwords and consider other security measures such as using SSH keys or security groups.

## Conclusion

You have successfully enabled password authentication on your AWS EC2 instance. Remember to follow best security practices to keep your instance secure.

For more detailed information, refer to the original article [here](https://medium.com/@dibaekhanal101/how-to-enable-password-authentication-in-aws-ec2-instances-374df456472e).


### Note: If you want the terminal host and username in green color then you can do following steps

## Change Terminal Prompt Color to Green

- This guide will help you change your terminal prompt color to green permanently.

## For Bash

1. Open your `.bashrc` file in a text editor. You can use `nano` or any other text editor you prefer:
   ```sh
   nano ~/.bashrc
   ```
2. Add the following lines to set the prompt color to green:

```sh
   # Set prompt to green
   PS1='\[\e[0;32m\]\u@\h \w\$ \[\e[m\]'
```

\[\e[0;32m\]: Sets the color to green.
\u: Username.
\h: Hostname.
\w: Current working directory.
\$: Shell prompt character.

3. Save the file and exit the editor (in nano, press CTRL + X, then Y, and ENTER).

4. Apply the changes by sourcing the .bashrc file:
```sh
   source ~/.bashrc
```
